# Class-18:

### Ceasar cipher
Encryption: The Caesar Cipher is a simple substitution cipher which replaces each original letter with a different letter in the alphabet by shifting the alphabet by a certain amount. (Scrambling the data according to a secret key.)
Decryption: Caesar always used a shift of 3. As long as his message recipient knew the shift amount, it was trivial for them to decode the message, they can then decode the message with certainty. (Recovering the original data from scrambled data by using the secret key.)
Cracking the cipher: There are three main techniques to crack the message: frequency analysis, known plaintext, and brute force. (Uncovering the original data without knowing the secret, by using a variety of clever techniques.)
- Frequency analysis: Human languages tend to use some letters more than others. For example, "E" is the most popular letter in the English language. We can analyze the frequency of the characters in the message and identify the most likely "E" and narrow down the possible shift amounts based on that.
- Known plaintext: If you already knew some part of the plaintext, it will be easier to crack the rest of the encrypted version. For example, messages tend to start with similar beginnings. In WWII, encrypted German messages always started with a weather forecast, which ultimately made them easier for British mathematician Alan Turing to crack.
- Brute force: There are only 25 possible shifts (not 26 — why not?). The enemy could take some time to try out each of them and find one that yielded a sensible message. They wouldn't even need to try the shifts on the entire message, just the first word or two.